So now let's look at our overview of quicksort, we'll start out with a list like this, except I'll
put it like this.
And the way Quicksort works is we start with a pivot point that's going to be that first item.
Then we're going to compare each of the numbers after that to this to see if it's greater than or less
then.
So we start with the six.
The six is greater than and I'll color that in grey.
The one is less than I'll color that in yellow, all the lessons will be yellow and the greater the
fans will be gray and then what we're going to do is swap that one with the first item that was greater
than.
Like this, then we move to the seven McCullogh that in gray, the three is less than and we'll swap
that with the first item that was greater then, which is the six like that.
The two is less then.
And we'll swap that with the seven because the seven is now the first item in the list that is greater
than the four like this.
And then the five is greater then.
So we have all of the items that are less than the four together and all of the items that are greater
than the four together.
And then in the next step will swap the four with the last of the less than items like this.
So two things to point out here, first, the four is now sorted, I colored that in green and everything
less than the four is to the left of the four.
Everything greater than the four is to the right of the four.
And then what we're going to do is run quicksort again on these items as well as on these items will
start on the left.
First two will be our pivot in this case.
One is less.
The three is greater than we swap these two items and now the two is sorted.
Then we'll run quicksort on these two, and because there's only one item in each of these, we know
those are sorted that will run quicksort on this side, the pivot is going to be six.
Seven is greater, five is going to be less.
We're going to swap these.
And they will swap these the six is sorted.
All right, quicksort omnis and because there's only one item in each of these, we know these are sorted.
And now we have a completely sorted list.
And that is our quick overview of quicksort.
