In this video, I'm going to show you how to set up your coding environment to be identical to the one
I use in the course, I will be using VS Code.
But having said that, I want to say that if you have a coding environment that is currently working
for you, for writing Python code, I would recommend that you stay with that.
There isn't anything in this course that is VS Code specific.
So if you're using something like PyCharm and you like PyCharm, I would say just stick with that.
So now let's get into setting up VS Code.
And so we'll do a Google search here and we'll just say download VS Code.
So I'll click on this and that'll do our search.
And then our top hit here is to download Visual Studio Code for Mac, Linux or Windows.
So I'm going to click on this.
And it brings us to this page.
Now, remember, these pages change, so it might look a little different when you come to this page.
So I am on a mac, so I'm going to come down here and click on this.
And you can see that is starting the download here.
And it doesn't matter if you're using Windows or Linux or a mac, you can just accept all of the defaults
when you install this.
And of course, we start the process by just clicking on this or going to the downloads folder and double
clicking on the item that was downloaded.
So I'm not going to go through all of those steps.
Being able to install a program is pretty straightforward, but once you install that and you launch
it, you'll get something that looks like this.
So now that this is up, we need to install Python into VS Code.
So we do that by going to this button here.
I'll click on this and the side pane changes and this is what we use to download extensions.
So you can see up here it says popular.
And the very first item here is Python.
And this is probably going to be the case for you as well.
If it isn't or it's not on this list, you can come up to this search box up here where it says search
extensions in Marketplace and just do a search for Python.
And this should be the first item that comes up.
So then we'll click on this install button right here.
I'll come up here and click on this and that will install Python.
So I'm going to come down here to where it says popular.
I'm going to collapse this arrow here and I'm going to do the same for where it says recommended right
here.
So now we can just look at the items that are installed.
So I have these three that were installed when we installed Python.
So I'm going to come up here to where it says Explorer.
That's going to change this side panel to be like this.
I'm going to click on open folder.
You can also do this in the menu file open.
This will all be very similar on Windows or Linux.
So I can do this either place.
I'll just click it here.
I have a folder already set up here called Python and I'll open this.
And now this is all of our code for the course.
So I'm going to click on this Hello World here and this just says print Hello World, simple.
I just want to make sure that Python is working correctly, and I'll do that by coming up here and clicking
on this play button here.
So I'll click on this.
And then you can see down here it's output.
Hello World.
So Python is working correctly, so make sure you do something like this.
Make sure that your file ends in a .py for Python like I have over here for Hello World.
And then just write a line of code to print something to the terminal and then run the code to make
sure that this is working.
So this is really all you need to do to be ready to move forward with the course.
But I'm going to show you a few cosmetic changes that I made to my VS code environment.
And you can either do this or not.
This is completely optional.
It's just cosmetic and doesn't really make any difference.
So first I'll show you the color scheme that I used.
We'll do that by coming down to this gear in the lower left.
We'll click on this, we get a menu, and I'm going to come up to here where it says Color Theme.
I'll click on this and then we get this up here.
I'm using Dark+ (default dark).
So if you want your code to match mine color wise, click on that.
And of course, that is completely optional.
And a couple of other changes that I made.
First is that I took the terminal and moved it to the right.
You just come to the terminal bar here, you right click, you get this menu and say, move panel.
Right.
Now that's going to move our hello world over here.
And then I installed another extension.
This is also completely optional.
You may want to skip this step just to make things a little easier on your end.
But I wanted the output for the course to look nicer.
So instead of having all of this extra information that is printed every time that I run something,
I want that removed.
And also what I want is I don't want this to print Hello World over and over on the screen.
What I want this to do is clear the console every time so this stays really clean.
That'll make it a lot easier for you to follow along and be able to learn the material.
So I'm going to come over here to Extensions.
And I'm going to do a search for Code Runner.
Like I said, this is completely optional.
I'll click install and I'll clear this search.
And you can see that we now have four items installed.
Our original three, which were part of the Python install.
And then for Code Runner.
So I'm going to close this tab here.
And now when I go up here.
Instead of just running this at the terminal, I get a menu Run Code that is Code Runner or Run Python
from the terminal.
So from the terminal is what we've been doing.
So I want to do run code.
So that's going to look like this.
So that does look a little nicer.
But we still have the problem of this printing multiple times.
When I run these things again, I want to fix that and I don't want this big directory to be printed
every time.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to come down here to the gear.
I'm going to click on this.
And then I'm going to click on Settings.
So what I'll need to do here is shrink a couple of these windows on each side so we have more room for
this window in the center.
So right here where it says extensions.
I'm going to open this up.
And I'm going to scroll down to where it says run code.
Right here, that is Code Runner.
So I click on this and a couple of changes I'll make here is do I want to clear the previous output?
Each time, I do.
So I'm going to check this box.
So now when I come over to our Hello World and I run this, it clears the console before executing the
code each time.
So the other thing I want to do is remove that big directory.
So I'll go back to our settings here.
And we'll scroll down a bit.
And then I want to uncheck this box where it says show execution message.
I'll uncheck this and what that's going to do.
We'll come back over here to the Hello World.
When we run this, we don't have any of that directory information.
It just says Hello world.
So that's all that Code Runner does is cleans up that output, which I thought was important for me
to do to make everything easier to watch in the videos.
But you don't need that.
You could just run this in the terminal and have Hello World show up here.
So for most of the course, I'll have the side window on the left closed like this.
And then we'll have the output looking like.
This so we can keep that pretty clean.
But that is how we're going to set up VS Code.
