So now we're going to code bubble sort and we're going to pick up where we left off in the last video
with this list here.
I'm going to shrink it down into the corner so we have room for our code and we'll start writing our
function, which will be called bubble sort, and we'll pass it.
A list will call it my list.
And that's going to be the list we have in the lower right hand corner here.
So remember the last video we talked about how the first time we would go through the list, there were
five times we were going through the list and then there was four times and then three times.
So we're going to start out with this for loop where the range is the length of the list, minus one
that's going to be equal to five.
And then we're going to go to zero and then we're going to decrement it each time.
So we're going to do now is the second for loop is going to be the for loop that is moving forward through
the list.
So that's going to look like this.
This one to begin with is going to run five times, do five comparisons.
And then when we go through this again, I is going to be four and then this is going to run four times.
So it's inside of this for Loop where we're going to do our comparisons.
So we'll have an if statement will say if my list at the index of J is greater than my list at the index
of J plus one.
So this is going to be the index of J in the first iteration and this is going to be J plus one.
So if J is greater, we want to switch these two and we'll switch these with these three lines of code.
So let's walk through this.
Temp equals my list at the index of J.
So temp equals.
For that on this line, Jay is equal to Jay plus one that's going to move that value of two over one
like this, and we'll say my list at J plus one, that empty spot.
We want it to be equal to temp.
And that moves that in their.
And once we run through these four loops.
We're going to have a list that looks like this and the only thing left to do.
Is to return the list.
And that is our entire function for bubble sort, so I'm going to take this list and mix it back up
the way it was and now let's go look at this in VS code.
So there is our function there, and this is where we run bubbles sort of on that list that we just
saw for two six five one three and will print out the results.
And I'll run this.
And that gives us our list in order one through six.
And that is our function for bubble sort.
