So now let's write our code for our merge function, so we'll start with our two sorted lists like this,
I'll shrink these down.
And we'll start this out by saying merge, and then we're going to pass it to lists, they both have
to be sorted.
And we're going to combine these two lists into a new list, and I might call that list combined.
Now, one of the key things here to figure out and combining these is you can't use for loops because
you don't know how many you're going to take from each list to begin with.
We're going to have to use while loops.
So I'm going to declare the variables for our while loops as I will set that equal to zero.
And that points to the index of zero and our first list and then will say J equals zero and we'll do
the same thing for the second list.
And then our while loop is going to look like this.
And this is basically saying as long as both lists still have items in them, we're going to run this
while loop if either list becomes empty.
It'll break us out of this war loop.
So in this case, I is less than Jay will start out with this to say, if I is less than Jay, these
two items and it is in this case.
Into the combined list, we're going to append from list one the item at the index of I like that.
Then we need to move I over one, we'll do that like this I plus equals one and that moves I over.
Now we're going to run through the while loop again and compare I and J in this case, J is less, we're
going to say ELT's.
And do the same thing here into the combined list, we're going to append from list to the item at the
index of J.
And then we need to move Jay over, one will do that like this, Jay plus equals one and that moves
Jay over.
And as we continue to loop through this while loop, it'll look like this.
Until that second list is empty and remember, we only run this until one of the lists is empty and
that'll break us out of this while loop.
So now we need to get the two items left in list one into the combined list, so let's look at doing
that, will say while I is less than the length of list one.
We'll append those items to the combined list at the index of I and we need to move I over like this.
And that will do it again and now list one is empty and that breaks us out of this while loop.
The other possibility is that we had items left in list, too.
So we'll need an almost identical while loop for list two that will look like this.
So we'll run the first while loop if list one still had items remaining, will run the second one if
list two still had items remaining.
And now the only thing left to do is to return that combined list.
So now let's look at this in with the rest of our code like this, and that is the entire merged function.
So now let's go take a look at this in code.
So there is a merge function there and I'll scroll this up.
And then down here, we're going to run the merge function with these two lists and print out the result.
So I'll run this.
And that gives us a single combined list with all eight items in order.
And that is our function for merge.
