So now we're going to write the code for our pivot function, so first I'm going to bring up a list
like this, will represent it like this and will shrink that down into the corner.
So one of the things about this function is we have two different places where we need to swap items
inside of the list.
And we would swap those items with something like this, but since we're doing it twice, I'm going
to create a function called swap so we don't have to rewrite this code.
And we're going to use this in two different places in our pivot function, and that will just clean
things up a bit.
So let's get into the pivot function itself.
So we're going to pass this a list, but we also need to give it the pivot index and the end index.
So what we're going to do here is we're just going to pass it the first index of zero and the end index,
which is going to be six.
We have seven items here.
It'll be zero through six.
So we've already created our first variable up here, pivot index.
And that's going to point here.
Our next variable swap index will just set that equal to the pivot index.
Like this.
And then that variable I was part of our for loop will bring that in.
For I in range.
And it's going to need the pivot index and the end index for this for loop.
So I is going to start out at Pivot Index plus one that's going to put it here and then here we say
and index plus one.
And remember, the reason for that is the for loop is going to go up to but not including this value.
And that's why we need to add the plus one.
So then we're going to compare that first value of I to the pivot value.
So we'll say if my list at the index of AI is less than my list at the pivot index, well, in this
case it's not less than so.
I'm not going to fill out this if statement yet.
What I'm going to do is color that value in gray.
And then we'll run through the for loop again, which moves I over one.
So now this if statement is true.
So now there are two things that we want to do.
We want to move that swap index over.
One, we'll do that like this swap index plus equals one and that moves that over.
And then we want to swap the items at eye and at swap index.
So we'll do that like this.
This is that function that we created at the beginning of the video will pass it, the list, the swap
index and I and it will swap those two items.
Now, if we continue running this for loop all the way to the end, our list is going to look like this.
Now, what we need to do is swap the items at pivot index and swap index.
And to do that, we're going to use that function again that we created at the beginning where we swap
two items.
We'll just swap the items at Pivot Index and swap index and that will do this.
Now, the only thing left to do is return the swap index.
So I want to emphasize here, we're not returning the value of four here.
We're returning the index of three.
So the pivot function does two things is going to rearrange the items in your list so they'll look like
this and it will also return the swap index.
So we'll look at this code in a moment in TVs code, and when we get done running it, our list is going
to look like this with four in the middle, all the items that are less than will be on the left.
Everything that's greater than the four will be on the right where we're going to start the list out
looking like this.
All right, so now let's flip over to visa code.
So there is our swap function there that just takes two items in the list and exchanges them.
Here's our pivot function.
And then down here, we've created a list called My List.
This is the list that we just looked at.
And then we're going to run pivot on my list and then the pivot index is going to be zero.
That's the first item in the list.
And then the end index and the list is going to be at the index of six.
OK, so I'll run this.
And remember, the only thing this returns is the swap index of three, but we also want to make sure
that our list has been rearranged the way we want it to be rearranged.
So we're going to come down here and paste this in where we print my list after we run pivot.
So I'll run this again.
And you can see here that four is in the middle and all the items that are less than four are on the
left and all the items that are greater than four are on the right.
All right, so that is our function for Pivot.
