Now, let's take a look at Selection's sort, I'll bring it the same list that we use for bubble sort
and we'll look at it like this, just like we did before.
But a difference that we're going to have here is that we also need the indexes for selection sort.
So I'm going to bring these in.
So with selection sort, we look at this first item and then we're going to keep track of the index
were the minimum value is and says this is the only one we've looked at so far.
This first item will say that the minimum index so far is at the index of zero.
So an important thing to emphasize here, men index is the index where the minimum value is.
We're not storing the value.
We're storing the index in this variable that we're going to have a for loop that starts at the next
item over and will say, is this value less than the item that's at the Index of Men Index?
In this case, an index is the index of zero, and in this case it is.
So now we're going to store this index here and we're just going to move across.
Is this one less?
It is not.
This one is not.
But this one is.
So will change men index to four and then we'll move to here and we've gone all the way through and
the minimum index is at the index of four, then what we're going to do is we're going to switch these
values.
And when we do.
That value of one at the index of zero is sorted, I'll color that in and green.
So then we're going to move to the next item and we're going to store that in many index and we'll compare
it with everything throughout the rest of the list.
In this case, nothing is less than what we started with at the index of one.
And this is a special case that will have to code for when there's not going to be a swap.
And we'll see that in the next video when we code this.
So then we move to the next item.
And main index is going to be to I'm going to take this main index and move it to the left like this,
because we're going to run out of room on the right there as we get all the larger items pushed over.
And this next item will be less.
So now the main index is three and this will switch it again.
This one's even less so index equals five.
So we'll take that value at the index of five and swap it with the one we started with.
And now that three is sorted, we're going to start out with this five that's at the index of three.
We'll compare it to the next one.
That's less at the index.
So for this one is not less.
So the minimum index is at four.
We'll switch these.
Now that four is sorted.
Then we move to this next one.
Main indexes for we compare it to this one, we don't need to make a swap here, these are both sorted.
So it's worth noting that we don't have to do this a sixth time at the index of five.
We only had to do this at the indexes of zero through four.
So I'm going to put this list back to the way it was like this and will pick up here in the next video
when we code selection sort.
