So now we're going to code selection sort, and this is where we left off in our last video, I'll shrink
this down and we'll start running our function.
So we'll say selection sort will pass it this list.
And now the first thing we have to do is create a for loop to loop through the list.
So if you'll recall from the last video, we only went through indexes zero through four, and once
you do that, everything is going to be sorted.
So we're going to do this for the range of the length, minus one.
Now for our next line of code, I'm going to enlarge this.
This is going to be I hear I from the for loop.
And remember, we set men index to be equal to zero.
Well, that's actually going to be I.
So let's shrink this down and put this in with the rest of our Code Men index on each one of these loops
through this for loop is going to need to be set equal to I.
And once we do that, we need to compare the item at men index to all of the other items after that
in the list.
So we'll have a separate for loop for that that looks like this.
Because we're looking at everything after the index of AI, we're going to start at AI plus one, so
this is going to be our start value for our for loop and this is going to be our end value.
And remember the end value we are going up to, but not including this value.
So the length is six.
That means we're going to go up to the index of five.
So let's enlarge the graph here and look at what that looks like.
So for the first iteration, this is going to be I and then Jay is going to be I plus one.
And men index is going to be equal to I.
Which is going to be the index of zero in this case.
Then we're going to compare that to the value at the index of J and that one is lower, so we're going
to set men index to be equal to J.
But we're only going to set men index equal to J.
If the value at J is less than what we had previously stored at Men Index.
So this shrink this down and take a look at that.
Let's bring our code back.
We'll need an if statement that says if the item at the index of J is less than the item at the Index
of Men Index, then will set men index equal to J.
So listen, large this again, and in this case, men index being equal to J means that it's equal to
one and that second for Loop is going to move the J through the list like this.
And if we see another item that's less than men, index such as this will set men index equal to J again,
which in this case is for.
And there will continue to the end of the list like this.
So now that that second for loop is done running, we know that men index equals four and we need to
take the item at the Index of Men Index and the item at the index of I.
And swap them.
And once we do, that first item will be sorted, so let's shrink this down.
And we'll be able to swap those two items with these three lines of code, I'm not going to walk through
these because this is very similar to what we did in Bubble sort to swap two items in the list.
But there is a scenario where you don't want to run these three lines of code.
And to walk through that, I'm going to enlarge this again the second time through the first four loop.
This second item is going to be I.
And Jay will be my plus one, so it'll be that next item over and you can just look at this and see
that the item at the index of I is going to remain the men index after we're finished.
And that index is going to be one I'll put that up there.
But that second for loop with the just is going to go through to the end of the list like this, and
we don't have an item that needs to be swapped.
So we have a situation where men index is the index of one and the index of AI is equal to one, so
we know that the item at the index of AI is sorted.
I'll go ahead and color that in green and I'll shrink this down and bring in those three lines of code
that are used for swapping items.
We don't want to run these three lines of code in this situation.
So we're going to say if I is not equal to men index, only then do we want to run these three lines.
In other words, if I in an index are equal, we don't want to run these three lines.
Now, let's put this in with the rest of our code like this, and if we run this code to completion,
it will make our list look like this.
And the only thing left to do would be to return.
The list.
Now, let's go look at this in VS code.
OK, there is our selection sort function, and then we're going to call that function here with that
same list that we were working with before, and we will print the results.
So I'll run this.
And that returns a sorted list, one through six.
And it looks like we have a working function for selection sort.
