Okay, let's do prepend.
We'll bring up our doubly linked list here.
So for prepend, we're going to have three steps.
We're going to have new node.
Next point there, we're going to have this other arrow point back.
We move head over.
And that adds that into our list.
And of course, you have to code for when you don't have any items in the list, in which case we have
head and tail point to the new node.
Okay.
So those are the steps.
If you're going to code this, go ahead and pause it here.
Otherwise, we'll get into this.
So we'll say prepend, we're going to pass at a value so we can create the node that we're going to
prepend to the list.
And that creates our node.
And the first situation will code for is when we don't have any items on the list.
And we'll say if the length is zero.
Will have head and tail point to the new node.
Like that.
And the other possibility is we have a link list with items in it.
So we'll say else and we'll build out our else statement.
So the first thing we're going to do is have the next pointer on the new node point to the same node
that head is pointing to like this.
We'll do that with this line of code.
New node next equals self dot head.
And that will have the pointer from the 11 point back at the four node like this that is head dot previous
equals new node.
We'll do that with this line of code head dot previous equals new node.
Then we just need to have the head point to the new node.
And we'll do that with this line of code self dot head equals new node.
And that adds that into our list.
So let's add this code in with the rest of our code like this.
That we just need to increase the length by one.
And then we're going to return.
True.
And that is our code for prepend.
And we'll look at this in a moment.
In V's code, we will build this length list with a two and a three, and then we will prepend.
A node with the value of one, and we should have a linked list with one, two, three.
Okay, so let's flip over to VTS code.
So there is our prepend method there.
And this is where we create our linked list with the two and the three.
And we'll print that out with this line here.
And I'll run this.
And that gives us a two and a three.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to scroll up a little bit here.
And in between the creation of this linked list and this print list, I'm going to paste this line of
code here, which is going to prepend the number one to our list, and then we'll print it out and we
should see one, two, three.
So why I will run this.
And now that has returned 1 to 3 OC and that is our method for prepend.
