Now let's do our get method.
Let's bring up our address space and we'll have a couple of key value pairs in there, bolts and washers.
And that will bring in our hash method like that.
And we'll say get item washers.
So we'll run this through the hash that gives us an address of for we go to that address, we'll loop
through the key value pairs till we get to washers and then we'll return the value.
If we have something like get item lumber that's going to be at the address of six, we come down here
that doesn't exist.
So in this case, we're going to return none.
All right, so let's shrink this down and write our method.
So we'll say get item.
We're going to pass it a key.
Then we need to figure out the index for that key.
So index equals self dot hash.
We pass this a key.
We run that method.
In this case, we're looking for washers and we know that that's at the address of four.
So we only want to look for washers if there are key value pairs at that address.
So we're going to say if self data map at that index is not none.
So in this case, at the index of four, we have key value pairs, but at the index of six we do not.
There's no point in looking for something if the item we are looking for is at the index of six.
Once we know there are items there now we can loop through them.
So we're going to say for I in range of the length of self dot data map at that index.
It is not the list that is the data map going zero through six.
It is this list here that is at the index of four.
And we're looking for washers in this case.
So to see if we have a match, we're going to use this if statement.
So let's walk through this.
If self dot data map at that index, that's this same thing here, which was this list.
Then we move to the I.
The eye is the eye from the for loop.
In this first iteration, that is zero.
So the item that's at the index of zero at that list is this key value pair.
So then we want to look at that key bolts that is at the index of zero.
So bolts, does that match the key?
The one we passed to the method In this case, the answer is no.
So we come back and run the for loop again.
So now I is one and that is this key value pair at the index of zero inside of that key value pair that
is washers.
That is a match for the key that we're looking for.
So we will return self dot data map at that index at I.
But the next index over is the value 50.
And then the other possibility, of course, is that we are looking for a key that is not in the hash
table.
So in that case, we're going to return none.
And that is the entire method for get item.
So we'll look at this in a moment.
In VTS code will create these two key value pairs.
And then what we'll do is we'll do a get item for bolts and washers that should print out 4500 and then
print out 50.
Then we'll also do a get item for lumber, which is not in the hash table, and that should return none.
All right, let's flip over to vs code.
Okay, there is our get item method there.
This creates our hash table called my hash table.
And we'll add bolts and washers to the hash table.
And then down here, we have three print statements, and each one of them is a get item one for bolts
that should return 4501 for washers, that should return 50 and then one for lumber, which should return
none.
So I'll run this and that returns 4550 and none.
And that is our method.
Forget.
