So now let's build our in queue method and in queue is just getting in line.
So the way we're going to do in Q is going to look like this, and that will add that onto the end of
our Q.
So this is one of our possible scenarios for adding an item into the queue.
The other one is if we have an empty queue in this case, we'll have first and last point to that new
node.
So if you're going to code this, go ahead and pause it here.
Otherwise, I will get into the code.
So we'll say NCCU.
We'll pass it a value.
We'll use that value to create a node like that.
So the first scenario will code for is if we have an empty queue where we're going to have first and
last point to that node.
In other words, it is the first and last item in line.
So to do this, we have to test to see if the queue is empty.
And we'll do that by saying if first is none will have first be set equal to the new node like that.
And we'll also have last set equal to the new node like that.
So let's add this in with the rest of our code.
So that is for if we have no items in the list, if we already have items in the list, we'll say else
let's build out this else statement.
So we'll say last dot next equals new node.
That is last dot, next equals new node.
Then we'll say last equals new node.
And we'll move that over.
And that adds that onto the end of our queue.
So let's add this code in with the rest of our code like that.
And the only thing left to do is to increase the length by one.
So we'll look at this code in a moment in VTS code.
And when we do, we'll build this queue where the first node has a value of one.
And then we'll run in queue to add a second node with a value of two, and then we'll print this out
and we should get one and two.
All right, let's flip over to VTS code.
OC.
There is our in queue method there.
And this is where we build that new queue that starts out with a node with the value of one.
And this is where we will enqueue a second node with the value of two.
Down here is where we will print that out and we'll expect to see one and two.
All right.
So I'll run this and that has returned one and two.
All right.
That is our method for in queue.
