Now let's create our DQ method.
DK is going to look like this.
And then we're going to return that node that we removed.
But we have a couple of edge cases.
One is if we only have one item in the queue.
And the other is if we don't have any items in the queue.
So we'll start with this scenario first and we'll say D.
We'll say if the length is zero, we will return none.
And we'll remove that.
And let's do this for one node.
So it doesn't matter if we have one or if we have two or more.
That means we're going to return a node.
So we need to have a variable point to it.
So we'll say temp equals self dot first.
And for removing one item we'll say if the length is one.
We set first and last equal to none.
Just like that.
So let's look at this in with the rest of our code.
So far we have written code for if we have zero items in our queue and if we have one item.
So now we're going to do this for two or more items.
So let's focus in on the ELTs and we'll bring this up.
And remember temp is already pointing to self first.
We already did that.
So the first thing we're going to do is move that first pointer over one.
So we'll say first equals first dot.
Next, we'll do that with this line of code here.
First equals first.
Next.
And that is going to move that over.
Then we'll say temp dot.
Next.
Is none.
And we'll do that with this line of code here.
Next equals none.
And that removes that from our queue.
So let's look at this with the rest of our code.
And the only things left to do are to decrement the length by one.
And return temp.
So we'll look at this code in a moment.
In VTS code.
And we'll build this Q with a two and a one.
And that way we can test all three of our scenarios.
First, we'll test to see if this works with two or more items, and we'll dequeue that.
Then we'll see if it works with one item and we'll dequeue that and then we'll run it again with zero
items to make sure that works and returns none.
All right.
Now, let's flip over to VTS code.
Okay, so there is our D.
Q method there.
And this is going to build our queue with one and two.
And then we'll run this line of code to print out the queue and we should get one and two.
So I'll run this.
Okay, so there is our one and our two.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to scroll up here.
And then I'm going to replace this.
Print Q.
With this.
And all we're doing here is running dq3 times once for when we have two items in the queue and then
for one item and then for zero items.
So I'll run this.
And that gives us our two nodes and then it finally returns none when we have the empty Q.
And then to make sure that these nodes that are being returned are the values that we're expecting.
I'm going to come up here.
That I'm going to change this to temp dot value.
And then I'll run this again.
And that is returning the one node and the two node and then finally returns none.
Then I'll come up here and remove the dot value.
And it looks like we have a working method for d.
Q.
