So in this video, we're going to go over a very common interview question.
So you may not see exactly what we're going to go over here, but a very high probability that you'll
see some version of this.
So we're going to bring up two lists.
So what we want to determine is whether these two lists have an item in common, and obviously they
have an item in common, the five.
And we're going to look at two approaches for how to do this.
An interviewer will want to see the second approach.
So the first approach, the obvious approach, what we would call the naive approach, would be to create
nested for loops.
So we'll have one for loop to go through the first list.
Then a second one to compare all the items in the second list to that number.
So we'll see if that's equal to one.
And if that is or that is, then we'll iterate the first for loop and move that over one.
And then we'll go through the second one again.
Then we iterate the first four loop again, go through this and finally find a match.
And because these are nested for loops, this is over and squared.
So let's just move these down here and we'll build this code quickly.
This should be pretty easy at this point.
So we'll say item in common and then we'll pass it the two lists.
Then we'll have a for loop that goes through list one another for loop that goes through list two that
is nested inside of the first for loop.
And if at any time I equals J.
Will return.
True.
And if we go through the four loops and we don't find a match.
Then we'll return false.
So let's flip over to VW's code and take a look at this.
So there is our function there.
These are the two lists that we just looked at.
And then down here, we'll print out item and common and pass it.
The two lists.
So I'll run this.
And that returns true.
And that's what we expected because we do have an item in common.
The fives here.
And then if we come up here to list two and change the five to a six.
Like that and we run it again.
Now it returns false.
All right, so let's flip back.
So that is the way to do it.
That is the inefficient way.
Now we're going to create the more efficient way of doing this.
And as you may have expected, we're going to use a dictionary since this is the hash table section.
And what we're going to do is loop through the first list, will take the one and put it into the dictionary.
We'll just make the value in this key value pair.
True.
And we'll do the same thing for the three.
Make that true.
And five is the key.
True is the value.
And we have three key value pairs.
So we had to loop through that first list.
That's o of n.
Now we will loop through the second list to compare the two to the dictionary to see is the two in the
dictionary.
So every time you look for an item in a dictionary by the key it is o of one.
That we'll do the same thing for the for.
And that we'll do the same thing for the five.
And of course, this gives us a match.
So we had to go through each list once, which you could say is o of to win.
But of course we drop the constants and it is o of n and o of n is far more efficient than o of n squared.
So this version is what an interviewer is looking for.
So now let's look at how to code this.
We'll start this out the same we'll call it item in common.
We'll pass it the two lists.
But the first difference is we need to create that dictionary.
So we'll say my dictionary.
Then we'll run the for loop to go through the first list.
Then we'll take the values from that and put it into the dictionary.
Then we'll have a second for loop.
And the key here is that this is not a nested for loop.
They are one after the other.
So we'll just say if J.
Is in my dictionary.
Will return true if we go through the second for loop and we don't find any matches, we'll return false.
So let's go take a look at this and vs code.
So there is our new updated version of the function that uses the dictionary.
We have the same two lists here and then we'll print item in common with list one and list two.
So let's run this.
And that returns true.
And we'll come up here like we did on the other one and change the five to a six.
And we'll run this again.
And now that returns false.
So you can see that both of these ways of writing this work.
But the second one is far more efficient.
So writing it the way that is more efficient is the real interview question.
