Okay, so now let's do prepend.
We'll bring up our link list here.
And what we're going to do is add an item to the beginning of the link list.
So first, we want that new node to point at that 11 node, the last node in the list.
So we need to set the next pointer on that node equal to something that is pointing at that node.
So we'll set the next node on the new node equal to head, and that points that over there.
And then we'll have Head Point to the new node.
And that adds that into the list.
And of course, this is going to be a little different if we have an empty list like this.
When we add it in this situation, we're going to have head and tail point to the new node.
So if you want to take a shot at coding this, then pause the video here and go over to VS code and
try to write the code.
Otherwise we're going to get into the code.
So we'll begin this.
Like this.
We're going to pass it of value.
And of course, the first thing we're going to do is create the node with that value.
And that creates our node.
So we had two situations we were going to code for.
If we had an empty list or a list with items in it.
Let's start with the empty one.
In this situation, we're just going to have head and tail point to the new node.
So in order to do this, we have to test to see is the list empty that we're inserting into?
And we'll do that by saying if the length is zero.
They will set head equal to the new node.
Like this.
And that we'll set tail equal to the new node.
Like this.
So let's take this code and put it in with the rest of our code.
So the other scenario we can have is that we actually have items in the list.
So we'll say else and let's build out this else statement.
So we want that new node to point at that 11 node and we'll set it equal.
To the head.
And that does.
This, then we want head to point to that new node.
We'll do that with this line of code and we'll say head equals new node.
We'll move that over and that adds that into the list.
So now let's look at this code in with the rest of our code so far.
And the only things left to do are to increase the length by one.
And in this case, we're going to return True.
And this is an optional line of code here.
And as I mentioned with append, I'm going to be using append.
I'll also be using prepend in another method in a few videos that requires a Boolean to be returned.
So that is why I'm going to put the return true in here.
So we'll look at this code in a moment in VTS code, and then we will build a linked list that looks
like this and that we will prepend the number one to that list.
So it'll start out with a two and a three and we will prepend a one and then we'll print the list out
and it should print out one, two, three.
All right, let's flip over to VTS code.
There is our prepend method there.
This is going to create that initial linked list with the two and the three in it.
And then here we're going to print that out that list with the two and the three.
Okay.
And there is our two and our three.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to come down here and I'm going to paste in our line that
pretends our number one there.
And now when we do our print list, this should print out one, two, three.
So I'm going to run this.
And that prints out one, two, three.
And that is our method for prepend.
